# Contributing to torq

**\o/ -o- \o/** Thanks for considering to contribute to torq **\o/ -o- \o/**

You already discovered our code repository hosted in the [LN.capital Organization](https://github.com/lncapital) on GitHub. The described guidelines are not set in stone. As the project grows so will this document. Feel free to propose changes to this document by opening a pull request

## How Can I Contribute?

### Reporting Bugs

**Note:** If you find a **Closed** issue that seems like it is the same thing that you're experiencing, open a new issue and include a link to the original issue in the body of your new one.

### Suggesting Enhancements

Let us know what you are missing so we can improve the software for everybody!

### Your First Code Contribution

Unsure where to begin contributing to torq? You can start by looking through these `Good first issue` and `Help wanted` issues:

- [Good first issue][good first issue] - issues which should only require a few lines of code, and a test or two.
- [Help wanted issues][help wanted] - issues which should be a bit more involved than `Good first issue` issues.

[good first issue]: https://github.com/lncapital/torq/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3A%22good+first+issue%22
[help wanted]: https://github.com/lncapital/torq/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3A%22help+wanted%22

### Code style guides

We are aware we are currently violating some of the style guides but we are working our way through the codebase to address this.

#### Filename and variable casing

| Item                                                                                                                           | Case       |
| ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ | ---------- |
| Database columns and tables<br>go folder and file names                                                                        | snake_case |
| Javascript folder names<br>Sass file names **\*.scss**<br>Typescript file names **\*.ts**<br>JSON Keys<br>JavaScript variables | camelCase  |
| Typescript file names using JSX **\*.tsx**                                                                                     | PascalCase |
| MARKDOWN.md file names                                                                                                         | UPPERCASE  |

#### Channel ID naming convention

Internally we prefer to use the core lightning short channel id format (`777777x666x1`) for representing channel ids. Naming of channel id variables and keys should be as follows:

| Name              | Refers to                                                 |
| ----------------- | --------------------------------------------------------- |
| shortChannelId    | Core lightning format short channel id (preferred format) |
| lndShortChannelId | LND's uint64 format                                       |
| lndChannelPoint   | LND's channel point format                                |

In the serverside code there are helper functions for converting between core lightning short channel ids and lnd short channel ids.

### Development guides

#### All OS types

The required software is:

- git
- docker
- go
- node + npm
- make

#### Windows extras

**git bash** installed with the unix tools is a usefull tool to run our end-to-end tests on Windows.

**Docker Desktop** is also compatible with torq. Please also activate WSL2 in Docker desktop.

### Running torq

Create a virtual **btcd**, **lnd** and **database** as development environment\*\* for Alice, Carol and Bob: `go build ./virtual_network/torq_vn && go run ./virtual_network/torq_vn create --db true`

If you get an error regarding timescaledb please run the command: `docker pull timescale/timescaledb:latest-pg14`

Once the command successfully finished the command to start torq will be visible and will look something like `go build ./cmd/torq && ./torq --torq.password password --db.user postgres --db.port 5444 --db.password password start`.

Some files are generated by the script and are available in virtual_network/generated_files (`admin.macaroon` and `tls.cert`).

When torq started should run the frontend in order to add Bob's node.
Go on the folder web `cd /web` and install the dependencies with the command `npm install --legacy-peer-deps`. Once this is done run the frontend with `npm start`.

You will be able to access torq on `localhost:3000`. Login with password: `password` and update the Settings section to add Bob's node with the following:

- GRPC Address (IP or Tor): `localhost:10009`
- TLS Certificate: `tls.cert`
- Macaroon: `admin.macaroon`

Once the virtual environment is created:

- to stop run: `go build ./virtual_network/torq_vn && go run ./virtual_network/torq_vn stop --db true`
- to start run: `go build ./virtual_network/torq_vn && go run ./virtual_network/torq_vn start --db true`
- to purge/delete run: `go build ./virtual_network/torq_vn && go run ./virtual_network/torq_vn purge --db true`

#### Running torq compartments in isolation

To run the database `docker run -d --name torqdb -p ${dbPort}:5432 -e POSTGRES_PASSWORD=${dbPassword} timescale/timescaledb:latest-pg14`

To run the backend without LND/CLN event subscription on port 8080 `go run ./cmd/torq/torq.go --db.name ${dbName} --db.password ${dbPassword} --db.port ${dbPort} --torq.password ${torqPassword} --torq.no-sub start`

To run the frontend in dev mode on port 3000 you can use `cd web && npm start`

When your code requires a database change you can create a migration file with `migrate create -seq -ext psql -dir database/migrations add_enabled_deleted_to_local_node`
You should not bother creating a rollback migration file. We will not be supporting that in this project. The migration itself will run once torq get booted.

### Testing torq

To test the frontend with npm is `cd web && npm test` or via make `make test-frontend`

To test the backend `make start-dev-db && make wait-db && make test-backend && make stop-dev-db`

To run a specific backend test with verbose logging `make start-dev-db && make wait-db && go test -v -count=1 ./pkg/lnd -run TestSubscribeForwardingEvents && make stop-dev-db`

To run our full end-to-end tests similar to our github actions pipeline the command (in git bash on Windows\*) is `make test && make test-e2e-debug`

When running `make test` fails potentially the dev database was still running so a consecutive run should work if that was the case.

### Creating a pull request

When you reached a point where you want feedback. Then it's time to create your pull request. Make sure you pull request references a GitHub issue! When an issue does not exist then it's required for you to create one so it can be referenced.
